Hello everybody and welcome to this lecture where we're going to have a look at the common features
that's our pawn and bishop share and see which ones we can use to accelerate our workflow so we don't
end up modelling the same thing over and over.
First of all let's go ahead and turn back our image.
I'm going to hide away the pawn for the moment and then go going to set my 3D cursor to the center
of the scene I'm going to shift an S cursor to world origin so to set it at 0 0 0.
I could have done that as well down here could have changed the 3D cursor location over in the properties panel
to 0 0 0 as well.
Now that we've got it set there and before I do anything else I'm going to go file save as and I'm going
to call this bishop because I'm going to start to change the pawn file away from how I originally wanted
to use it.
Then I'm going to go to file import images as planes you could also go shift and A, image, image as planes
and let's go find our bishop.
So we're gonna go to our reference material and whilst we're in here we can change the view type itself.
At the top just on this header by here where we've got the view we can go along and change it so we can
see the thumbnails.
Now this is really useful if you've got several images that the name doesn't really give a great idea
as to what it might be.
So if you've got Brick  0 0 1 in Brick 0 0 2 and brick 0 0 3 Sometimes it's good to actually see what
you're looking at rather than just guessing by the name.
So we can see there are several similarities all the way up the neck piece to this top area here and
that's true of the King.
The bishop has a bit more ornate at the top.
I'd argue that the rook is completely different and the queen again follows the standard look.
So we have a look at the queen, the bishop, the king and the pawn they all share more features other than
just the base that we picked out earlier.
It's going to load in my bishop image and it's going to come in massive of course.
There we go.
Want to switch over to lookdev mode so we can see it rotates around on the Z axis by 90 and then on
the Y axis as well so rotate Y 90.
There we go.
And then I'm going to scale that down by I think it's about a factor of 10 to large.
And look at it from the right and then come down how could we look at it from the front.
But that's the orientation my pawn is currently and so on to go G Z and lift it up.
Now if you remember back to the sizes and shapes that we were talking about earlier the pawn itself
was three wide and this was going to be four wide.
So what we can do here is I can scroll up we can see it's four point seventy six over here and I will
not just be able to change that it will just stretch it one way.
But what we can do is hit the S key for scaling and we can go and hold down shift to move it slowly as
we get close and I can scale it down.
So it's approximately right.
And then just use the shift key to make it accurate.
We can also scale exactly against a real object in the scene in a real mesh object.
That is the right size but that's fine for the moment I'm going to apply that scale and let's just go
G Z and move it down to approximately the right location so there we go we got our image in the right
place.
And now if I just go G Y and just move over here for a moment we can see what they look like when they
are literally stacked next to each other.
So we can see here there are a lot of similarities.
We need to scale the pawn up obviously before we can actually use it but otherwise I think we can start
using this base model here.
Just add a few more details where it's necessary and we'll have our bishop and we can pretty much model
everything we need to apart from the notch or the hole in the bishop's hat which we can do later on
in a separate lecture and that leads us nicely onto our challenge.
Okay see your challenge.
Import the bishop reference image if you've not done already.
Make sure you working in a new blend file and adjust the pawn to fit the bishop itself.
Now don't attempt the notch in the hat just yets.
Well I say don't if you already have some blender experience how would you go ahead and make that notch.
Of course we'll do that bit in a bit and make sure you have named everything appropriately so make sure
your outliner has everything you'd expect to see in it but nothing more in your new blend file.
Pause video now and give that a go
Okay everybody, Welcome back.
Let's hop on over into blender and stretch out our pawn to make our bishop.
OK.
So obviously here I already have everything in the right place.
I'm going to get rid of my pawn reference image.
There we go.
I'm going to select this and move it into the appropriate place which is where Y equals zero.
I'm going to also rename this from pawn to Bishop so B.I.S.H.O.P.
There we go.
I think I've got everything sorted that I'm going to change my display as from display as textured to
wire so I can see through my model as I'm stretching it.
Now the first thing I need to do is probably adjust this image a little bit.
I'm not sure if it comes all the way down to the base.
I'm just going to lower it down so I get roughly the right height.
Now selecting the mesh object again we need to scale it now.
I could just go scale and hold down shift and move it out to approximately four centimeters like so
I could also scale it by one point three three.
That gets it into the right location almost the right location.
I'm going to make that exactly four and four here.
So we squish that.
Now can I just scale it on the Z and get it to fit.
Well you know what.
Almost.
But what I'm going to do instead is I'm going to do a tiny bit of work here because this circle on top
of the sphere sorry on top is pretty much what we want it to be.
All I need to do here is separate this top bit of geometry from the bottom bit.
So if I go ahead and go into edit mode making sure I have the right objects selected we can go ahead
and chop this off right here.
So I'm going to hold down alt and select the edge loop and just delete it for the moment.
Now that leave us with disconnected geometry.
You'll be loose from one another but that does give us now the ability.
I'm going to switch back into lookdev mode of lifting this area up here to press the L key to select
all of the linked mesh data i'm going to go G Z and lift it up to approximately the middle and then just stretch
it out only on the Z axis to get that kind of shape that I wanted before but no more.
And of course I'm gonna have to tweak some of these because it is an overall different shape.
Okay now we've got that there.
I'm also need to do the same with some of this bottom areas here.
Because I'm in wireframe I should be able to box select areas and move them around.
But you see here we're not selecting everything behind.
That's something that can easily catch you out if you're not careful.
Even though this looks like it's in wireframe mode we've discussed this before and I will probably discuss
it in more detail later as well.
But if we go Z and switch everything over into wireframe then we can select everything through our model
when we highlight it like that again, Okay then switch our view back round to lookdev
So we can see what we're working on under the press G here and Z and lift it up to approximately the
right location and then it's just a matter of scaling some of these to be accurate.
It's not important to get it 100 percent correct.
I'm going to select both of these edge loops.
Now should have held down shift to begin with and then bridge them.
So I'm going to search for bridging edge loops with F3 and I type in bridge because it's a keyword
there.
And then I'm going to add some loop cuts and scale in accordingly and out where's necessary.
Now this doesn't look like it's.
It looks like it's centered in most of the places but in others especially at the top here it doesn't
seem to be quite the shape that I was hoping that it would be because I'm going to tweak these.
So it's right for me.
Let's come back round this one here can come all the way in and then we've got this one on the top.
Now this is going to be very similar to how we made the ball originally so I'm going to delete that
vertex on the top put the 3D cursor roughly in the right place and let's make sure it is in the right
place with X and Y both being zero and I'm going to add in a UV sphere and it's going to have to be
tiny isn't it.
So the radius here I'm going to go for one centimeter to begin with and it's going to have to be eight
segments to match the piece.
And I'm just gonna go for four this time round and move it up first.
I'm going to grab that bottom vertex and delete it.
There we go.
So we've got almost everything I need.
They're going to grab this area here and scale it in even further and lift it up.
And now I'm starting to I'm conscious that I'm starting to tweak and tried to get things almost perfect
and that is something you need to watch out for yourself.
It's very easy to fall into the trap of starting to work on something and before you know it you've
spent hours on something that you didn't need to.
So don't try and get things perfect just get them to the right level that you need to scale that in
ever so slightly select the next edge loop up and then bridge them once more.
So I'm happy with the overall shape at the top there that we've got these extra bits here.
So I'm going to add in a loop cuts and scale out now I'm not sure whether I'm going to do anything extra
just here.
I might grab this face loop running round and scale it in, give the hat a bit more prominence.
Let's go into solid shading with the Z key and just see how it's looking.
Yeah I like that.
I just want to tweak the base because I know it doesn't follow the reference material very well at the
moment.
So let's go back down to here and we can grab this area.
Here we go.
G and Z shows you just the difference in selecting whether you're selecting edges faces or vertices
if we're selecting faces and I did that selection I select too much.
So the switch over to vertex select and select the area that I wanted and I'm also just going to whizz
round here and show you what happens.
So here is a mistake that you will easily fall into if you're not careful because we weren't in wireframe
mode.
I didn't select the area behind everything else at the top is okay.
Because we were creating it as we go.
But now I'm selecting a moving.
This is what happens if you don't select all of your model at once when you're trying to manipulate
it.
So we will obviously undo that focused on selecting switch over to wireframe and then select the area
that we want to move.
Make sure it's selected if you're unsure.
Hop back in to lookdev mode, whizz round and I'm just going to move that back up again and scale it inwards.
Okay I'm happy with the overall look of that I think my bishop is coming along really nicely.
Let's go back into solid shade so we can just see, oh it's not solid shade is it switching between things
and I can't remember, So switch that over to texture mode and that looks pretty decent.
Awesome.
I'm going to make sure I save my work.
Going to come out into object mode and just hide my reference material.
Awesome.
And there we go.
The bishop is all done.
Perfect right.
How did you get on.
Did you use as much of the pawn as I did or did you delete more of the pawn and just build it up from
there.
Now with this very simple object it's almost as quick to do it either way in which case there's no problem.
But with more complex models being able to recognize repeated features and parts that you can use over
and over again will save you countless hours in the future so do watch out for them if you can reuse
something.
It's not cheating it's just efficient and good workflow.
So there we go.
That's my bishop.
Done.
Looking forward to seeing yours please share them over in the discussions and I'll see you all in the
next lecture.